US President Joe Biden has rescinded the national emergency order used to fund Donald Trump's border wall. In a letter to Congress on Thursday, Mr Biden wrote that the order was "unwarranted" and said that no further tax dollars will be spent on the wall. Mr Trump declared a state of emergency over the southern border in 2019, which allowed him to bypass Congress and use military funds for its construction.When Mr Trump left office, about $25bn (£18bn) had been spent on the project.The announcement from President Biden is the latest in a series of executive orders that have rolled back key parts of the former president's agenda. Last week, Mr Biden signed orders seeking to reunite migrant families split up by Trump-era policies, and ordered a probe of his predecessor's immigration agenda. In a letter on Thursday, Mr Biden wrote that he would also seek a review of "all resources appropriated or redirected" to the construction of the wall. Building a border wall was a signature pledge of Mr Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. But the project faced strong opposition in the Democratic-controlled House, and the Republican president announced he would use emergency powers to fund its construction. An emergency declaration allows US presidents to circumvent the usual political process and to access military funding. Various types of fencing totalling 654 miles (just over 1,000 km) were already in place before Mr Trump became president in 2017.During his his time in office, 80 miles of new barriers were built where there were none before, and almost 400 miles replaced existing parts of the structure."Trump's national emergency was never about security," wrote Arizona Democratic Congressman Raul Grivalva on Twitter following Biden's announcement. "Now we must cancel the contracts and ensure that not another foot of the border wall is constructed."Former Trump campaign advisor Jason Miller also took to Twitter to comment on the decision, writing "Biden loves illegal immigration". But some parts of the Trump administration's immigration policy will be left in place. At a press conference on Wednesday, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki appeared to confirm the new administration would keep a Trump-era policy that allowed border officials to summarily expel undocumented immigrants amid the coronavirus pandemic. "Due to the pandemic and the fact that we have not had the time, as an administration, to put in place a humane, comprehensive process for processing individuals who are coming to the border," she said. "Now is not the time to come, and the vast majority of people will be turned away". Trump wall: How much has he actually built?Did Trump stop more people coming to the US?How emergency powers could be used to build Trump's wall'Convict Trump or it could happen again,' trial toldProsecutors rest their impeachment case against Donald Trump - his defence will begin on Friday.Capitol riots timeline: How the day unfoldedBiden cancels funding for Trump border wall'Down with the military - release our leaders!''The roar of the crowd shook my feet'Why scientists want to kill Pablo Escobar's hipposElisa Lam: What really happened in the Cecil HotelBBC Worklife: Is the productivity tool 'ritual' over?The Indian kitchen serving an unpalatable truthSaving a marsupial 'unique even to Australia' VideoSaving a marsupial 'unique even to Australia'The former gang member fighting anti-Asian racismThe cinemas now hiring out their screens to gamersLyrics quizHave you been getting these songs wrong?Feeling hotWhat happens to your body in extreme heat?China bans BBC World News from broadcasting1Biden cancels funding for Trump border wall2Milan thieves 'use Instagram to rob celebrities'3Damage 'runs deep' says Meghan, after privacy win4Arthritis drug 'a life-saver' for Covid patients5Dating app Bumble tops $13bn in market debut6Plans for huge Charles de Gaulle terminal scrapped7Alonso 'conscious' after cycling accident8Jazz musician Chick Corea dies aged 799Rare Nasa photos reveal Amazon 'gold rivers'10© 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.