
			Welcome,		“I have determined that the declaration of a national emergency at our southern border was unwarranted,” the president wrote in a letter to Congress
				President Joe Biden speaks to Department of Defense personnel alongside Vice President Kamala Harris and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin at the Pentagon, Wednesday, Feb. 10, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)			
				AP			President Biden informed Congress on Thursday that he has rescinded Trump’s 2019 national emergency declaration that redirected billions in order to fund construction of the former president’s beloved border wall with Mexico.In a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the president said Trump’s declaration was unnecessary and the taxpayer dollars it diverted will no longer be allocated to fund the wall. Biden also promised a review of “all resources appropriated or redirected” to building the wall.“I have determined that the declaration of a national emergency at our southern border was unwarranted,” Biden wrote in the letter. “I have also announced that it shall be the policy of my Administration that no more American taxpayer dollars be diverted to construct a border wall, and that I am directing a careful review of all resources appropriated or redirected to that end.”“I hereby report to the Congress that the national emergency… is terminated and that the authorities invoked in that proclamation will no longer be used to construct a wall at the southern border,” Biden concluded. The emergency declaration allowed Trump to divert $600 million in Treasury Department funds and $6.1 billion from the Defense Department to Homeland Security to pay for the border wall.Trump then renewed the emergency proclamation in February 2020, diverting an additional $3.8 billion of American taxpayers’ money to a project that both candidate and President Trump promised would be paid for by Mexico — a lie that he habitually repeated. Trump’s demands for wall money drove a partial government shutdown in late 2018 and early 2019. After Congress refused to allocate that money, Trump used the emergency declaration to get it anyway, a move that shouldn’t be forgotten when Republicans inevitably accuse Biden of “executive overreach.”Biden first made his intentions on the matter known via a proclamation on his first day as president. Earlier this month, Biden bucked another of Trump’s anti-immigrant policies by creating a task force to reunite children who were separated from their parents.But, due to the coronavirus pandemic, Biden does plan to continue Trump’s policy of turning away asylum seekers, at least until his administration can establish what Press Secretary Jen Psaki called a “humane” process. “The vast majority of people [at the border] will be turned away,” Psaki told reporters Wednesday.The militarization of America’s border with Mexico did not begin with Trump, however. It is a decades-old policy course pursued by multiple administrations—from Nixon to Clinton to Bush—and it will take much more than hitting the “undo” button on Trump’s harmful policies to fix. But this, at least, is a start.
		In This Article:
				Border Wall,				Donald Trump,				Joe Biden 
			Want more Rolling Stone? Sign up for our newsletter.
Newsletter SignupHave a Tip?
			Welcome,		Follow UsAlerts & Newsletters
					© 2021 Penske Media Corporation				These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.Cookies, device identifiers, or other information can be stored or accessed on your device for the purposes presented to you.Ads can be shown to you based on the content you’re viewing, the app you’re using, your approximate location, or your device type.A profile can be built about you and your interests to show you personalised ads that are relevant to you.Personalised ads can be shown to you based on a profile about you.A profile can be built about you and your interests to show you personalised content that is relevant to you.Personalised content can be shown to you based on a profile about you.The performance and effectiveness of ads that you see or interact with can be measured.The performance and effectiveness of content that you see or interact with can be measured.Market research can be used to learn more about the audiences who visit sites/apps and view ads.Your data can be used to improve existing systems and software, and to develop new productsYour precise geolocation data can be used in support of one or more purposes. This means your location can be accurate to within several meters.Your device can be identified based on a scan of your device's unique combination of characteristics.Your data can be used to monitor for and prevent fraudulent activity, and ensure systems and processes work properly and securely.Your device can receive and send information that allows you to see and interact with ads and content.Data from offline data sources can be combined with your online activity in support of one or more purposesDifferent devices can be determined as belonging to you or your household in support of one or more of purposes.Your device might be distinguished from other devices based on information it automatically sends, such as IP address or browser type.BackClear FiltersAll Consent AllowedWe and our partners store and/or access information on a device, such as unique IDs in cookies to process personal data. You may accept or manage your choices by clicking below, including your right to object where legitimate interest is used, or at any time in the privacy policy page. These choices will be signaled to our partners and will not affect browsing data.Use precise geolocation data. Actively scan device characteristics for identification. Store and/or access information on a device. Select basic ads. Create a personalised ads profile. Select personalised ads. Create a personalised content profile. Select personalised content. Measure ad performance. Measure content performance. Apply market research to generate audience insights. Develop and improve products. 
                List of Partners (vendors)
                